#WhenComputersWereWomen  #BusinessAndTech #AVictorianEcologicalDisaster #VisionsOfTelephony #source #Summative 

Throughout history, there has always been an inherent link between business, and technology. ] Such is the case with the creation of one of the first computers, as explained in the brief note [[Wartime Tech]], the ENIAC mentioned in [[@When Computers Were Women]], was originally utilized to automate ballistics calculations for testing and firing new weapons. Even after the war, the ENIAC was continuously worked on by its [[Scrubbed From The Picture|female programming team]], ensuring the calculations remained accurate. However, once there are no more shells to fire, what becomes of such technology? The lessons taught from creating the ENIAC were carefully honed, eventually used to create and sell more computers. It is from the wartime efforts that the profitable venue of computing-technology is where it is today.

Another such case is the telegraph; Since the British empire was so vast, communication was incrediby difficult, as described in the note [[Tyranny of Distance]]. The telegraph would not only reduce the time required to sent messages, but also reduce the costs of sending messages, since you no longer needed to hire couriers. As such its popularity abosultely boomed, [[Tax on Nature|almost wiping out a plant species used in creating the telegraph lines]]. This popularity skyrocketed the telegraph industry to become truly monopolous, overtaking much of the communication of the time. This extended to the predecessor of telegraph, the telephone, many of the original having a [[A Fight With an Octopus|powerful influence across all areas within their vast information network]]. It is due to business that many of the companies and their technology are around today ([[Forgotten to Time|though, not always]]).

2023-03-10